Now you understand what Lean Startup
is, you understand what the process
is, what the Lean philosophy
is, and what we will do is identify
or anticipate what are the mistakes
that almost everyone makes, and
they are the ones that make a 90%
of startups die almost in their
first year of life.
I want you to have them very clear
because they are very common mistakes
and I would like that if you see yourself
in the situation that you have to
create a new product or that you
are developing a business model,
you do not make any of these
mistakes.
Well, the process of creating a traditional
product in an environment in which
there is no uncertainty,
in an environment in which you know
what the characteristics of
the product are, you know the
customers you are going to address,
you know how it will put the
market, etc., because it is a
market that exists.
The traditional process is that you have
an idea, you execute that idea, that
is, you develop the product and when
you go to the market, because
the market validates it or does not
validate it.
This means that you make the investment
before you go out to the market.
However, Lean Startup, what we
propose is a different process in
which from the idea, the first
thing we will do is validate
that idea.
Validate that idea as soon as possible,
without the investment and the strong
investment we will do it
a posteriori, once it is validated.
Well, let's see what are the
main mistakes that almost
all entrepreneurs make.
The first thing I see is that when
someone has an idea, what they
do is waste a lot of time thinking,
planning, making a business
plan.
And, more training entrepreneurs
have, the bigger and more
sophisticated the business plan is.
They include more variables
and plan what will happen
in the next five years.
They plan everything customers will
do, how much they will pay, how
much we will grow in sales, when
we will invest in marketing,
and so on.
Imagine that in a startup the
degree of uncertainty is so high
that you hardly know what
will happen in two weeks.
So planning what will happen
in the next five years is a
sovereign stupidity.
It's a stupid thing that will
lead you to get wrong in almost
everything you're planning.
So don't waste time, don't
waste time on what you have
to do is do.
There is also a lot of time being spent
on market research.
Market studies are very good
at times because they give you
information about the size of
the market, the competition, etc.
But of course, when you are
creating a new product, a new
service, when there is so much uncertainty,
when you are creating a
new market, you can't draw
excessive conclusions
because they can lead you
to error.
Another very common thing is
to ask people from your environment
that the industry.
And in very many cases I don't
care about the opinion of
the experts, nor do I care about
the opinion of people, your
friends, the people around you.
Even if they are people, people tend
to trust people who have had a
lot of professional success in other
environments, in many cases in multinationals
or managers, whatever it
is.
If they say that it is a good idea,
it seems like it strengthens you.
Well, I would tell you that you don't
listen to the experts in the sector,
nor to the people, even if you have
a lot of common sense around you,
because they don't have any idea.
The only information that is valuable to me
is that that which the customers give me.
The only thing that matters is that
when you bring that product to the
market, customers are willing
to pay for it.
It is the only important thing.
The rest, the opinions of people
who may seem to you that have
criteria to know what customers are
going to do, I think is to take
excessive risks, because you
have no more criteria than you.
We don't have to assume that we know
what customers are going to do, we'll see.
So, from that business plan, from
all that work we have done, from asking,
from analyzing, from studying the
market, what is usually done is, when
you have already convinced you that
this, because you have been told
that it is a very good idea, because
you have convinced you
that it is a magnificent idea,
what you do is execute
that idea.
Execute before validating.
Execute what does it mean?
Start creating the product,
start spending money, start
getting people to marketing,
for sales, etc.
You will be wrong.
Why are you going to be wrong?
Because in that business plan you
have given, of course, very many
hypotheses, very many hypotheses
that a large part of them, customers,
when you go to the market,
will make you see that you
were wrong.
The first is the main hypothesis,
as I said, and it is to think
that we know that the customer
will act as we think.
And that, if you have ever participated
in meetings, for example, in product
development, etc., it is very common
to hear people say, no, because
if we incorporate these
functionalities we will
bring more value.
The best thing is to go out to the market
and that the customer validate our hypotheses.
But don't give them, of course, because
it's very easy to get wrong.
It's something you should be going to
respond to as you think, because it'
ll surprise you.
Another very common mistake.
Well, since the beginning,
try to build a product that
is, that is finished, that is
perfect.
Try to build the product
you want from day one.
And why?
This product, as we have
mentioned earlier, is
the result of many
hypotheses.
All the features you have added
to that product are because
you are considering that those features
bring more value to the customer.
But you do not know.
It is better to do it in another way.
It is better to build a minimum
viable product and that the
market and customer feedback
help us build that product
that is perfect.
Perfect hipo, between cuddles,
because what is perfect for you doesn'
t have to be perfect in the market.
What does this lead us to, in addition?
Trying to build a perfect product
leads us to delay the
launch date.
Usually in the business plan
you set a launch date, for example,
within six months.
But then you start building the product
and everything gets complicated and
deadlines are not met.
In addition, you want the product
to have more functionality,
be more perfect, perfect
for you and end up delaying.
What is it that is delaying?
It is delaying the most valuable.
It is delaying contact with
customers.
Contact with customers is really
what will allow you to validate,
identify whether those hypotheses
that are within your business
plan are valid or not.
Well, and finally, something
very common is that when you have
created a product, even sometimes
you have some attraction, because
there are customers who
buy it, etc., well, what you
do is invest in marketing or
invest in sales before time.
This is especially true of
entrepreneurs who come more from the
business world and who consider that the
most important thing is to sell it well.
It is also a mistake, because in many
cases what they are doing is
trying to prove that they have not
yet validated, that they bring
any value.